Runtime executor documentation (#1363)
astronomer/docs: astro/runtime-executor.md

### Slots

Slots are a mechanism for limiting the amount of tasks that can run concurrently on a single runner. By default, runners have 16 slots and tasks request 1 slot.

You might want to request more slots for large tasks that you don't want limited by specific resource requests for CPU and memory. Running a task in multiple slots ensures that the task doesn't compete for resources with other tasks in the same runner.

### Set task-level resource requests

You can set task-level requests for the following resources in your task definitions:

- `cpu`: The number of CPU cores to reserve. For example, `1.5`.
- `memory`: The number of megabytes of RAM to reserve. For example, `1024 MB`.
- `slots`: The number of slots that the task takes up to limit concurrency on a single runner. You can request up to 64 slots for a single task, which is the concurrency limit for a worker queue on Astro. For example, `16`.

#### Resource request example

The following task is configured with a resource request of 1.5 CPU cores and 1024MB.

```python
my_task = BranchPythonOperator(
            task_id="my_task",
            python_callable=_get_activity, # Python function called when task executes

>             resources= {"cpu": "1.5", "memory": "1024MB", "slots": "2"},

Reviewer: Syntax for the resource request is just slightly off here. It should be:
`executor_config={"resources": {"cpu": "1.5", "memory": "1024MB", "slots": "2"}},`

- The **Airflow metadata DB** stores both assigned and unassigned allocation requests. The Runtime executor’s DB tables are created alongside, but in complete isolation from, existing Airflow tables. This means that no open source tables in Airflow need to be modified in order for the executor to work.
- The **allocator** queries the metadata DB for unassigned allocation requests. It then determines how the allocation requests should be handled and submits assignments for the runners back to the DB.
- **Runners** run tasks. To start running a task, a runner queries the metadata DB to look for a new assignment. If it’s been assigned a task, the runner starts completing the work. Currently, there is only one type of runner named **SubprocessRunner**, which runs tasks within the same cluster as your Airflow environment.

```mermaid 
flowchart LR;
classDef astro fill:#dbcdf6,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px;
    A[Scheduler]-->|Log new tasks/ allocation requests| B[(Metadata DB)];
    C[Allocator]-->|Query for new allocations / Log new assignments| B;
    D[Runners]-->|Query for new assignments/ log status|B;
    E[Webserver]-->|Query for results of runners' work|B;

>     style ControlPlane fill:#bfeaff,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
>     style DataPlane fill:#bfeaff,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
>     style AstroCLI fill:#bfeaff,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px
>     style Deployment fill:#bfeaff,stroke:#333,stroke-width:2px

Author: ```suggestion
```

---
sidebar_label: "Runtime executor"

> title: "Run tasks with the Runtime executor"

Author: Cut some words here, keeping things focused on "Resources"

id: runtime-executor

> description: Learn how to your Airflow environment and tasks to take advantage of the Runtime executor, available exclusively in Astro Runtime.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
description: Learn how to use your Airflow environment and tasks to take advantage of the Runtime executor, available exclusively in Astro Runtime.
```
Alternative description:

Learn how to use the Runtime executor in Astro Runtime.

---

The Runtime executor is Runtime's component for executing Airflow tasks. It provides the same functionality as the Celery executor, as well as new features and configurations which make task execution more reliable and observable. See [Runtime image architecture](runtime-architecture.md#runtime-executor) for more information about the benefits of the Runtime executor and how it works.

The Runtime executor can work as a direct replacement for the Celery executor without any additional configuration. You can also use Runtime executor to control task execution to a greater degree than with the Celery executor. For example, you can:

- Specify resource requests for CPU, memory, and concurrency slots within your tasks.

> - Set environment-level strategies how resources should be allocated between tasks that don't have specific resource requests.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Set environment-level strategies to define how resources are allocated between tasks without specific resource requests.
```

- View metrics for task completion states and resource usage.

:::info

This functionality is early access and under active development. If you have any questions or feedback about this feature, contact [Astronomer support](https://support.astronomer.io/).

:::

## Enable the Runtime executor in a Deployment

To enable the Runtime executor in a Deployment, set an environment variable with a key of `ASTRO_RUNTIME_EXECUTOR` and a value of `True`. See [Environment variables](environment-variables.md).

> After you set this variable, all tasks in the Deployment will run with the Runtime executor. To revert back to using the Celery executor, delete the environment variable from your Deployment. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After you set this variable, all tasks in the Deployment will run with the Runtime executor. To revert to the Celery executor, delete the environment variable from your Deployment. 
```

## Set task-level resource requests

> You can set task-level requests for the following resources:

Reviewer 3: Let's give a (brief) explanation here of why you would do this (reliability, especially for bigger tasks)

> - `cpu`: The number of CPU cores to reserve (for example, `1.5`).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `cpu`: The number of CPU cores to reserve. For example, `1.5`.
```

> - `memory`: The number of megabytes of RAM to reserve (for example, `1024MB`).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `memory`: The number of megabytes of RAM to reserve. For example, `1024MB`.
```

Is it with `MB` here?

> - `slots`: The mechanisms for limiting concurrency within a runner. You can request up to 16 slots for a task.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `slots`: The number of tasks that a single task counts for, in the context of controlling worker concurrency, which represents how many tasks a single runner can run at once. You can request up to 64 slots for a single task, which is the concurrency limit for a worker queue on Astro.
```

The Runtime allocator uses these requests to determine the best runner for a task to run on. After a task is assigned to a runner, the runner reserves the requested resource for the entire duration of the task. 

You should set these resource requests to be the maximum amount of resources that a task should use at any given time. A task can use some, all, or none of its requested resources. Runners can't scale down the requested resources once the task starts running.

> Set task-level resource requests in the task definition. In the following example, a task is configured with a resource request of 1.5 CPU cores and 1024MB.

Reviewer 3: This transition feels a little off -- could split it into two sections?

```python
my_task = BranchPythonOperator(
            task_id="my_task",
            python_callable=_get_activity, # Python function called when task executes
            resources= {"cpu": "1.5", "memory": "1024MB", "slots": "2"},
        )

```

When this task is assigned to the runner, the runner reserves 1.5 CPU cores and 1024MB for the entirety of the task, even if the task only uses 512MB of memory.

### How slot requests work

> Slots are a mechanism for limiting the amount of tasks that can run concurrently on a single runner. By default, runners have 16 slots and tasks request 1 slot.

Reviewer 3: I think we should actually split up into two sub-sections:

## Task-level Requests
[high-level overview of two methods and why you'd use them]

### CPU and Memory

### Slots

You might want to request more slots for large tasks that you don't want limited by specific resource requests for CPU and memory. Running a task in multiple slots ensures that the task doesn't compete for resources with other tasks in the same runner.

> ## Set environment-level allocation strategies

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Set an allocation strategy
```

Don't think you ever set more than "one" or plural strategies

> Set the `ALLOCATOR_STRATEGY` [environment variable](environment-variables.md) to configure how the Runtime executor allocates tasks across your runners. This environment variable has two possible values:

Reviewer 3: @jwitz Can we add a section on how to view runner status in the Airflow UI? Do you have access to that? @ianbuss Would be good to get more guidance here on the Runtime team on what's available in that runner tab and how we expect users to reference it

Author: I've added this section, but I'm running into a few bugs that made me doubt whether we should be writing about this now - even if it's still in beta.

- `EvenSpreadStrategy`: The allocator attempts to assign tasks evenly across all available runners.

> - `MaxPackingStrategy`: The allocator attempts to assign as many tasks as possible to a single runner before using another runner.

Reviewer 3: If we want to, I'd suggest we put it under some section called "Advanced" or something
